
 
 
 
 Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jump to content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main Page Talk 
 
 
 
 
 
 English 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read View source View history 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tools 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tools 
 move to sidebar 
 hide 
 
 
 
		Actions
	 
 
 
 Read View source View history 
 
 
 
 
 
		General
	 
 
 
 What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code 
 
 
 
 
 
		Print/export
	 
 
 
 Download as PDF Printable version 
 
 
 
 
 
		In other projects
	 
 
 
 Wikimedia Commons Wikimedia Foundation MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikimedia Outreach Multilingual Wikisource Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikifunctions Wikimania Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Wikidata item 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Appearance 
 move to sidebar 
 hide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Welcome to  Wikipedia , 
 the  free   encyclopedia  that  anyone can edit . 
 284,222  active editors   7,129,021  articles in  English 
 
 
 
 The  English-language Wikipedia  is celebrating its 25th birthday!  Learn how you can take part  in the encyclopedia's continued improvement. 
 
 
 
 From today's featured article 
 
 
 Bowie in 1972 as Ziggy Stardust 
 
 " Life on Mars? " is a song by the English musician  David Bowie   (pictured) , first released on his 1971 album  Hunky Dory . Conceived as a parody of  Frank Sinatra 's " My Way ", "Life on Mars?" was recorded in August 1971 at  Trident Studios  in London, and was co-produced by Bowie and  Ken Scott . The track features piano by the keyboardist  Rick Wakeman  and a string arrangement by the guitarist  Mick Ronson . "Life on Mars?" is primarily a  glam rock  ballad, with elements of  cabaret  and  art rock . The lyrics are about a girl who goes to a cinema to escape reality, and include  surreal  images that reflect optimism and the effects of  Hollywood . In June 1973, at the height of Bowie's fame as  Ziggy Stardust ,  RCA Records  issued "Life on Mars?" as a  single  in the United Kingdom, where it peaked at number three. Bowie frequently performed "Life on Mars?" during his concerts, and the track has appeared on numerous  compilation albums . Commentators generally consider "Life on Mars?" to be one of Bowie's finest songs.  ( Full article... ) 
 
 
Recently featured:  
 Opifex fuscus 
 The Ladies' Journal 
 History of the Jews in Dęblin and Irena during World War II 
 
 
 Archive 
 By email 
 More featured articles 
 About 
 
 Did you know ... 
 
 
 
 Barracks at Beaune-la-Rolande internment camp, 1941 
 
 ... that in 2013 a barrack from the  Beaune-la-Rolande internment camp   (pictured)  was discovered in a private garden, still bearing detainees' graffiti from 1942? 
 ... that a giant mask was added to the  El Colotero  sculpture in 2020 to raise awareness of COVID-19? 
 ... that the New York City Police Department was deceived into guarding  a nearly-vacant house ? 
 ... that  a graduation song  was used as the  departure melody  of a train station in Japan? 
 ... that the first video game developed in independent Ukraine,  Admiral Sea Battles , was released in 1996? 
 ... that Nancy Van Laan said she came up with  Rainbow Crow  after coming across a  Lenape  corn planting ceremony? 
 ... that philanthropist  Dorothy Spotswood  watered the concrete foundation for a new children's hospital? 
 ... that Olympian  Adolf Schreiber  was awarded a plate by  Prince Franz Joseph II ? 
 ... that  animal penis is eaten  around the world as an aphrodisiac? 
 
 Archive 
 Start a new article 
 Nominate an article 
 
 
 
 
 In the news 
 
 
 Tô Lâm 
 
 Vietnam's  communist party congress  re-elects  Tô Lâm   (pictured)  as  general secretary , the most powerful position in the  one-party state . 
 Iliana Iotova  becomes the first female  president of Bulgaria  following the resignation of  Rumen Radev . 
 Italian fashion designer  Valentino , founder of  his eponymous fashion house , dies at the age of 93. 
 Wildfires in Chile  leave more than 20 people dead. 
 
 Ongoing :  
 Iranian protests 
 Russo-Ukrainian war 
 timeline 
 Sudanese civil war 
 timeline 
 U.S. immigration enforcement in Minneapolis 
 protests 
 Recent deaths :  
 E. A. Siddiq 
 Ajit Pawar 
 Francis Buchholz 
 Mark Tully 
 Michael F. Adams 
 William Foege 
 
 More current events 
 Nominate an article 
 
 On this day 
 
 January 30 :  Martyrs' Day  in India ( 1948 ) 
 
 
 
 Mahatma Gandhi 
 
 1661  – Two years after his death,  Oliver Cromwell 's remains were exhumed for a  posthumous execution  and  his head  was  placed on a spike  above  Westminster Hall  in London, where it remained until 1685. 
 1948  –  Mahatma Gandhi   (pictured) , the political and spiritual leader of India and the  Indian independence movement , was  fatally shot  by  Nathuram Godse  at  Birla House  in Delhi. 
 1968  –  Vietnam War : Forces of the  Viet Cong  and the  Vietnamese People's Army  launched the  Tet Offensive  to strike military and civilian command and control centers throughout  South Vietnam . 
 1979  –  Varig Flight 967  disappeared shortly after takeoff from Tokyo's  Narita International Airport  en route to Rio de Janeiro. 
 2013  – The  Korea Aerospace Research Institute  launched  Naro-1 , South Korea's first carrier rocket and their first  launch vehicle  to achieve Earth orbit. 
 Everard Digby   ( d.  1606) Angela of the Cross   ( b.  1846) Rudolf Caracciola   ( b.  1901) John Bardeen   ( d.  1991) 
 
More anniversaries:  
 January 29 
 January 30 
 January 31 
 
 
 Archive 
 By email 
 List of days of the year 
 About 
 
 
 
 
 From today's featured list 
 
 Tyla 
 
 The  discography of Tyla , a South African singer, consists of one studio album, two  extended plays  (EPs), twenty-three singles, and twenty-two music videos, as of 2026. Her debut studio album,  Tyla , was released on 22 March 2024 and debuted at number 24 on the US  Billboard  200 . It was led by the global hit " Water ", which became the first song by a South African solo artist to enter the US  Billboard  Hot 100  in 66 years, peaking at number 7 and achieving  multi-platinum  status in several countries. Further singles included " Truth or Dare ", " Art ", and " Jump ". A  deluxe edition  followed on 11 October 2024, spawning the single " Push 2 Start ". In 2025,  Tyla  released the EP  WWP  on 25 July, preceded by the singles " Bliss " and " Is It ", the latter giving her her biggest  Spotify  debut to date. She contributed "Everything Goes with Blue" to the  soundtrack of  Smurfs , as well as to " Show Me Love ". As a featured artist, Tyla appeared on  Cardi B 's " Nice Guy ", and  Lisa 's " When I'm with You ". American rapper  Yung Miami  accused Tyla of stealing " Chanel " prior to its release. ( Full list... )
 
 
Recently featured:  
 Songs recorded by the Linda Lindas 
 Coretta Scott King Award 
 World Heritage Sites in Morocco 
 
 
 Archive 
 More featured lists 
 
 
 
 Today's featured video 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A  time-lapse  video of the  aurora australis , as seen from the  International Space Station . Aurorae are natural light displays in the sky caused by the collision of energetic charged particles with atoms in the high altitude  thermosphere . The particles originate in the  magnetosphere  and  solar wind  and, on Earth, are directed by  Earth's magnetic field  into the atmosphere.
 
 Video credit:  NASA  /  ISS Expedition 28  crew 
 
Recently featured:  
 The Torment of Saint Anthony 
 Blue petrel 
 Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart 
 
 
 Archive 
 More featured pictures 
 
 
 
 
 Other areas of Wikipedia 
 
 Community portal  – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements. 
 Village pump  – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues. 
 Site news  – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement. 
 Teahouse  – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia. 
 Help desk  – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia. 
 Reference desk  – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics. 
 Content portals  – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia. 
 
 Wikipedia's sister projects 
 
 Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the  Wikimedia Foundation , a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer  projects :
 
 
 
 
 
 Commons Free media repository 
 
 
 
 MediaWiki Wiki software development 
 
 
 
 Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination 
 
 
 
 Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals 
 
 
 
 Wikidata Free knowledge base 
 
 
 
 Wikinews Free-content news 
 
 
 
 Wikiquote Collection of quotations 
 
 
 
 Wikisource Free-content library 
 
 
 
 Wikispecies Directory of species 
 
 
 
 Wikiversity Free learning tools 
 
 
 
 Wikivoyage Free travel guide 
 
 
 
 Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus 
 
 
 
 Wikipedia languages 
 
 
 This Wikipedia is written in  English . Many  other Wikipedias are available ; some of the largest are listed below.
 
 
 
 
 
 1,000,000+ articles 
 
 
 
 العربية 
 Deutsch 
 Español 
 فارسی ‎ 
 Français 
 Italiano 
 Nederlands 
 日本語 
 Polski 
 Português 
 Русский 
 Svenska 
 Українська 
 Tiếng Việt 
 中文 
 
 
 
 
 
 250,000+ articles 
 
 
 
 Bahasa Indonesia 
 Bahasa Melayu 
 Bân-lâm-gú 
 Български 
 Català 
 Čeština 
 Dansk 
 Eesti 
 Ελληνικά 
 Esperanto 
 Euskara 
 עברית 
 Հայերեն 
 한국어 
 Magyar 
 Norsk bokmål 
 Română 
 Simple English 
 Slovenčina 
 Srpski 
 Srpskohrvatski 
 Suomi 
 Türkçe 
 Oʻzbekcha 
 
 
 
 
 
 50,000+ articles 
 
 
 
 Asturianu 
 Azərbaycanca 
 বাংলা 
 Bosanski 
 کوردی 
 Frysk 
 Gaeilge 
 Galego 
 Hrvatski 
 ქართული 
 Kurdî 
 Latviešu 
 Lietuvių 
 മലയാളം 
 Македонски 
 မြန်မာဘာသာ 
 Norsk nynorsk 
 ਪੰਜਾਬੀ 
 Shqip 
 Slovenščina 
 ไทย 
 తెలుగు 
 اردو 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=1335602045 " 
 
 
 
 
 343 languages 
 
 
 
 
 Acèh Адыгэбзэ Адыгабзэ Afrikaans Alemannisch Алтай тил አማርኛ Anarâškielâ अंगिका Ænglisc Аԥсшәа العربية Aragonés ܐܪܡܝܐ Արեւմտահայերէն Armãneashti Arpetan অসমীয়া Asturianu Atikamekw अवधी Avañe'ẽ Авар Aymar aru Azərbaycanca تۆرکجه Basa Bali Bamanankan বাংলা Banjar 閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gí Basa Banyumasan Башҡортса Беларуская Беларуская (тарашкевіца) भोजपुरी Bikol Central Bislama Български Boarisch བོད་ཡིག Bosanski Brezhoneg Буряад Català Чӑвашла Cebuano Čeština Chamoru Chavacano de Zamboanga Chi-Chewa ChiShona ChiTumbuka Corsu Cymraeg Dagbanli Dansk الدارجة Davvisámegiella Deitsch Deutsch ދިވެހިބަސް Diné bizaad Dolnoserbski डोटेली ཇོང་ཁ Eesti Ελληνικά Emiliàn e rumagnòl Эрзянь Español Esperanto Estremeñu Euskara Eʋegbe Farefare فارسی Fiji Hindi Føroyskt Français Frysk Fulfulde Furlan Gaeilge Gaelg Gagauz Gàidhlig Galego ГӀалгӀай 贛語 Gĩkũyũ گیلکی ગુજરાતી 𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺 गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni Gungbe 客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî Хальмг 한국어 Hausa Hawaiʻi Հայերեն हिन्दी Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Bahasa Hulontalo Ido Igbo Ilokano বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua Interlingue ᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ / inuktitut Iñupiatun Ирон IsiXhosa IsiZulu Íslenska Italiano עברית Jawa Kabɩyɛ Kalaallisut ಕನ್ನಡ Kapampangan Къарачай-малкъар ქართული کٲشُر Kaszëbsczi Қазақша Kernowek Ikinyarwanda Ikirundi Kiswahili Коми Kongo Kotava Kreyòl ayisyen Kriyòl gwiyannen Kurdî Кыргызча Кырык мары Ladin Ladino Лакку ລາວ Latgaļu Latina Latviešu Lëtzebuergesch Лезги Lietuvių Li Niha Ligure Limburgs Lingála Lingua Franca Nova Livvinkarjala La .lojban. Luganda Lombard Magyar Madhurâ मैथिली Македонски Malagasy മലയാളം Malti Māori मराठी მარგალური مصرى ဘာသာမန် مازِرونی Bahasa Melayu ꯃꯤꯇꯩ ꯂꯣꯟ Mfantse Minangkabau 閩東語 / Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄ Mirandés Мокшень Монгол မြန်မာဘာသာ Nāhuatl Naijá Na Vosa Vakaviti Nederlands Nedersaksies Nēhiyawēwin / ᓀᐦᐃᔭᐍᐏᐣ नेपाली नेपाल भाषा 日本語 Napulitano ߒߞߏ Нохчийн Nordfriisk Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Nouormand Novial Occitan Олык марий ଓଡ଼ିଆ Oromoo Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекча ਪੰਜਾਬੀ पालि Pälzisch Pangasinan Pangcah پنجابی ပအိုဝ်ႏဘာႏသာႏ Papiamentu پښتو Patois Перем коми ភាសាខ្មែរ Picard Piemontèis Pinayuanan Tok Pisin Plattdüütsch Polski Ποντιακά Português Qaraqalpaqsha Qırımtatarca Reo tahiti Ripoarisch Română Romani čhib Rumantsch Runa Simi Русиньскый Русский Саха тыла Sakizaya Gagana Samoa संस्कृतम् Sängö ᱥᱟᱱᱛᱟᱲᱤ سرائیکی Sardu Scots Seediq Seeltersk Sesotho Sesotho sa Leboa Setswana Shqip Sicilianu සිංහල Simple English سنڌي SiSwati Slovenčina Slovenščina Словѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟ Ślůnski Soomaaliga کوردی Sranantongo Српски / srpski Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog தமிழ் Taclḥit Taqbaylit Tarandíne Татарча / tatarça တႆး Tayal తెలుగు Tetun ไทย Thuɔŋjäŋ ትግርኛ Тоҷикӣ Lea faka-Tonga ᏣᎳᎩ Tsetsêhestâhese Tshivenda ತುಳು Türkçe Türkmençe Twi Tyap Тыва дыл Удмурт Basa Ugi Українська اردو ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche Vahcuengh Vèneto Vepsän kel’ Tiếng Việt Volapük Võro Walon Wayuunaiki 文言 West-Vlams Winaray Wolof 吴语 Xitsonga ייִדיש Yorùbá 粵語 Zazaki Zeêuws Žemaitėška 中文 Obolo Batak Toba Bajau Sama Betawi Batak Mandailing Dagaare Kadazandusun Fɔ̀ngbè Ghanaian Pidgin Jaku Iban Igala Kumoring Yerwa Kanuri Kʋsaal Moore IsiNdebele seSewula Nupe ရခိုင် Руски ꠍꠤꠟꠐꠤ ᥖᥭᥰ ᥖᥬᥲ ᥑᥨᥒᥰ ትግሬ Tolışi Toki pona ⵜⴰⵎⴰⵣⵉⵖⵜ ⵜⴰⵏⴰⵡⴰⵢⵜ 
 
 Edit links 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main Page 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 343 languages 
 
 
 Add topic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
